Initial Framework Philosophy document (#6)
Regression-Games/RegressionBot: CONTRIBUTING.md

# Framework Philosophies

This document outlines the goals, ideas, and roadmap for the rg-bot library (as well as our public-facing libraries in general). This is a living document, and we encourage players to participate and contribute to this document.

## Core Facts

> The success of this library is dictated by various core facts that should be true. Our goal is to make sure that these facts are always true, and any change that causes one of these facts to not be true should be re-evaluated.

Reviewer: Sounds a bit wonky because facts are implicitly true. Perhaps something along the lines of 

"The success of this library is dictated by its adherence to several core facts. Our goal is to make sure that these facts inform changes to the library. Any change that violates one or more of these facts must be re-evaluated."

Author: Fixed!

> Note that some of these facts require testing the library against real users. We don't need to evaluate these specific items every time a change occurs in the library, but we should make that evaluation often.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you're getting at here from a Contributor perspective. Is this intended to state that when validation against our facts requires access to a production environment that we (the RG team) will be responsible for that validation? It sounds more like you're stating that not every change needs to be evaluated against our core facts, but that defeats the purpose of having them so I'm a bit confused on this one.

Author: By this suggestion, I meant that it is probably not feasible to run these surveys with every change we make, so I wanted to give some leeway so that we can use our best judgment, and batch multiple changes into one survey. Thoughts?

Reviewer: That's reasonable - gathering feedback from users will definitely take time. With this in mind, I'd suggest rewording to something like...

"Some of the following core facts require gathering feedback from real users, which is not feasible as a requirement for accepting every change to the library as it is proposed. Therefore, it is the responsibility of the Regression Games team to evaluate compliance with these facts at its discretion on a regular basis."

#### Fact 1: 80% of users with more than 6 months and less than 1 year of JavaScript experience should be able to articulate what a provided example / template does.
Making this goal a reality ensures that most new players who may not be coding experts can jump right in and begin understanding the bots on the Regression Games platform. This is measured by conducting user-interviews and surveys with potential players. The user should be able to _roughly describe_ the algorithm in the example (we define this as getting most of the algorithm). Here is an example of a template:

> ```javascript

Reviewer: Title this as "prompt", "template", etc. to visually separate it from the answers/responses section

const animalsToHunt = ["chicken", "pig", "cow", "sheep", "player"];

async function huntAnimals() {
    let nearbyAnimals = bot.findEntities({entityNames: animalsToHunt, maxDistance: 100});
    console.log(nearbyAnimals)
    if (nearbyAnimals.length == 0) {
        bot.chat("Could not find animals nearby... going to wander and try again")
        await bot.wander();

>         return await huntAnimals()

Author: Resolved - returned if no animals were found (with a helpful message), and added a retry limit to the attacking procedure.

    while (animalToAttack.isValid) {
        await bot.attackEntity(animalToAttack)
    }
    bot.chat("Finished attacking the " + animalToAttack.type, ", moving on the next victim")
    let itemsOnGround = await bot.findAndCollectItemsOnGround()
    bot.chat(`Picked up ${itemsOnGround.length} items off the ground`)
    return await huntAnimals()
}

```

**Acceptable Answers**

```
This code finds animals like chickens and then hunts them. If it can't find an animal, it wanders around. Then it picks up the items.
```
```
The code finds animals, kills them, and then picks up items they drop
```
```
The bot finds animals and kills them if it can find them
```

**Unacceptable Answers**
```
The bot hunts animals # This means they just read the function name
```
```
I'm not sure, something about hunting
```
```
It finds animals and picks up items off the ground
```

**Measurement Approach:** Survey / Interview

**Desired sample size per test**: 10-15 users

**Most recent test results:** We should include the **average** of all the examples, and a table of the specific templates and examples (i.e. each example bot).

Example Prompt for the Interviewee
```

> Please describe what this bot does. Try to use a full sentence, and cover (at a high level) the entire algorithm, not just one piece of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please describe what this bot does. Try to use a full sentence, and cover (at a high level) the entire algorithm rather than just one piece of it.
```

```

> ### Fact 2: 95% of users with great than 1 year of JavaScript experience should be able to articulate what the provided examples / templates do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Fact 2: 95% of users with more than 1 year of JavaScript experience should be able to articulate what the provided examples / templates do
```

> Making this goal a reality ensures that players who know JavaScript well can jump right in and begin understanding the bots on the Regression Games platform. This is measured by conducting user-interviews and surveys with potential players. The user should be able to _roughly describe_ the algorithm in the example (we define this as getting most of the algorithm).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This fact ensures that players with an intermediate level of coding experience can engage with and understand  bots on the Regression Games platform. This goal is measured by conducting interviews and surveys with players and potential players. The player should be able to _roughly describe_ the algorithm in a given example -we define this as understanding most of the algorithm.
```

> This test is the same as **Fact 1**, but has a higher percentage of players since the players have more experience with JavaScript.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This test is the same as **Fact 1** but requires a higher success rate because the targeted players are expected to be more experienced with JavaScript.
```

**Measurement Approach:** Survey / Interview

**Desired sample size per test**: 10-15 users

> **Most recent test results:** We should include the **average** of all the examples, and a table of the specific templates and examples (i.e. each example bot).

Reviewer: Same comment as fact 1

> ### Fact 3: A user that encounters an error within our library that they must recover from should immediately have one next step available to them

Reviewer: Descriptive and accurate, but wording doesn't flow very well. Suggest something like...

"When an error results from correct usage of our library, the library must offer the user at least one option for recovery from the error"

> Focusing on this goal ensures that we increase the chance that a player never gets stuck on a library-related issue. Players should spend their time focusing on their strategies, rather than the intricacies of code. When a fatal error occurs that requires the user to fix their code, we should make every attempt to point them in the right direction. Examples of this include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This fact ensures that a player never gets stuck due to a library-related issue. Players should be able to focus on their strategies rather than the intricacies of the library. When a fatal error occurs which requires handling in the user's code, we must attempt to point them in the right direction towards resolution. Examples of this include:
```

> * Logging errors that make direct suggestions to fix (e.g. "Invalid item name. Make sure that the item name is a valid id (e.g 'spruce_log') instead of the displayed name (e.g. 'Spruce Log'). The list of valid items can be found at https://...")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Logging errors with a direct suggestion on how to fix the root cause of the error (e.g. "Invalid item name. Make sure that the item name is a valid id (e.g 'spruce_log') instead of a displayed name (e.g. 'Spruce Log'). The list of valid items can be found at https://...")
```

> * Logging errors that include links to documentaton for next steps (e.g. "... To see approaches to fix this, visit https://...")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Logging errors that include links to documentation for next steps (e.g. "... To see approaches to fix this, visit https://...")
```

> * Explaining it more simple terms **why** it failed

Reviewer: * `it more` -> `in more`
* `it failed` -> `the action failed`
* Can you provide an example here?

> Good Examples of handling this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Acceptable examples of providing recovery options to the user:
```

> * [Explicitly stating that the error is fine and expected](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1088)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Explicitly stating that an error is expected](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1088)
```

> * [Saying why it failed in simple turns](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1102)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Stating why an action failed in simple terms](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1102)
```

**Measurement Approach:** Internal Audit

**Most recent test results:** 

> (Dec 27, 2022) Out of **17** explicit errors, **9** had a next steps or more info provided = **53%** success rate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Dec 27, 2022) Out of **17** explicit errors, **9** provided next steps or more info = **53%** success rate.
```

https://d7y6yysps34.typeform.com/to/feG9z7kp

## Design Patterns

### Awaits, Promises, and Callbacks

Most of our functions and design patterns should use Promises + `await` when possible. For example:

**DON'T IMPLEMENT**
```javascript
bot.findAndDigBlock('dirt', (block) => {
    ...
})
```
**DON'T PROVIDE AS AN EXAMPLE**
```javascript
bot.findAndDigBlock('dirt')
  .then((block) => {...})
```

**DO**
```javascript
let block = await bot.findAndDigBlock('dirt')
```

In the case where a user-provided block of code **needs** to be passed to a library function, this is fine. This should really only happen when the operation requires some sort of context that needs managing (such as opening a chest, e.g. there is a before and after operation). For example:

**DO**
```javascript
bot.openAndInteractWithChest(chest, (chest) => {
    chest.place(...)
});
```

In the cases of these context-aware operations (opening and closing a chest, mounting and unmounting a horse, etc..) we should still provide the context-unaware functions, that the user can use themselves). These are useful for sending new players quick code examples that they can understand.

**ALSO DO**
```javascript

> let openChest = bot.openChest(chest);

Reviewer 2: we should should then how to use try/finally for any cases like this where the follow up API call is required to properly manage state

Author: Added!

```javascript
const animalsToHunt = ["chicken", "pig", "cow", "sheep", "player"];

async function huntAnimals() {
    let nearbyAnimals = bot.findEntities({entityNames: animalsToHunt, maxDistance: 100});
    console.log(nearbyAnimals)
    if (nearbyAnimals.length == 0) {
        bot.chat("Could not find animals nearby... try wandering around first with `bot.wander()`")
        return
    }
    let animalToAttack = nearbyAnimals[0].result
    bot.chat("Hunting a " + animalToAttack.name)
    let attackCount = 0
    while (animalToAttack.isValid) 
        if (attackCount > 100) {
            bot.chat("Could not kill animal, stopping. Try hunting a new animal.")
            return;
        }
        await bot.attackEntity(animalToAttack)
    }
    bot.chat("Finished attacking the " + animalToAttack.type, ", moving on the next victim")
    let itemsOnGround = await bot.findAndCollectItemsOnGround()
    bot.chat(`Picked up ${itemsOnGround.length} items off the ground`)

>     return await huntAnimals()

Reviewer 2: I would suggest using the code sample , or very close to it, from the replit example.

https://linear.app/regression-games/issue/REG-505#comment-cdf59209

* [When approaching a block fails](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L956)
* [When equipping a tool fails](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1005)
* [When equipping a tool fails](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1099)
* [When approaching and digging a block fails](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1172)
* [When collecting an item fails](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1332)
* [When dropping an item fails](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1417)
* [Error when crafting an item](https://github.com/Regression-Games/RegressionBot/blob/e2bddcc37950a9f2ee5718ff5aa4dda549c5f008/lib/RGBot.js#L1498)

## Link to Survey for Fact Checking

https://d7y6yysps34.typeform.com/to/feG9z7kp

## Design Patterns

> ### Awaits, Promises, and Callbacks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Promises and Callbacks
```

> Most of our functions and design patterns should use Promises + `await` when possible. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of our functions and design patterns should use an `async/await` pattern for Promises when possible. For example:
```

**DON'T IMPLEMENT**
```javascript
bot.findAndDigBlock('dirt', (block) => {
    ...
})
```
**DON'T PROVIDE AS AN EXAMPLE**
```javascript
bot.findAndDigBlock('dirt')
  .then((block) => {...})
```

**DO**
```javascript
let block = await bot.findAndDigBlock('dirt')
```

In the case where a user-provided block of code **needs** to be passed to a library function, this is fine. This should really only happen when the operation requires some sort of context that needs managing (such as opening a chest, e.g. there is a before and after operation). For example:

**DO**
```javascript
bot.openAndInteractWithChest(chest, (chest) => {
    chest.place(...)
});
```

> In the cases of these context-aware operations (opening and closing a chest, mounting and unmounting a horse, etc..) we should still provide the context-unaware functions, that the user can use themselves). These are useful for sending new players quick code examples that they can understand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the cases of these context-aware operations (opening and closing a chest, mounting and unmounting a horse, etc..) we should still provide the context-unaware functions, which the user can use themselves). These are useful for sending new players quick code examples that they can understand.
```
